An Integrated Edge-AI Emergency Healthcare
Platform for Elderly Fall Prediction Using Wearable
Sensors and Real-Time Ambulance Coordination
Abstract—Wearable fall-detection systems for older adults
increasingly use machine learning and edge intelligence, but
many still stop after classifying a fall and notifying a caregiver.
This leaves a gap between accurate detection and clinically
useful response: the system must verify patient status, estimate
severity, coordinate transport, track response progress, and
prepare the receiving hospital. This paper proposes an integrated
low-power Edge-AI emergency healthcare platform for elderly
fall prediction and response. The platform combines an ESP32-
based wearable node, an MPU6050 accelerometer and gyroscope,
a heart-rate sensor, TinyML inference, threshold-based verification,
physiological verification, Emergency Severity Score (ESS)
assessment, caregiver alerting, live patient-location sharing, ambulance
coordination, real-time ambulance tracking, hospital prenotification,
and a cloud dashboard. The main contribution is an
event-driven architecture that links patient, caregiver, ambulance,
and hospital stakeholders rather than treating fall detection
as an isolated classification task. Mathematical formulations,
algorithms, workflow logic, and evaluation metrics are defined to
support reproducible implementation. The expected outcome is
a compact, energy-aware prototype foundation for dataset-based
validation, false-alarm reduction, faster emergency coordination,
and ethically governed clinical pilot testing.
Index Terms—Ambulance coordination, edge artificial intelligence,
elderly healthcare, fall prediction, hospital pre-notification,
Internet of Things, physiological verification, TinyML, wearable
sensors.
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
Falls are a major source of injury, hospitalization, loss
of independence, and mortality among older adults [1], [2].
A delayed response can increase clinical risk, especially for
individuals who live alone or cannot call for help. Wearable
accelerometers and gyroscopes provide continuous motion
sensing, while heart-rate sensors add patient-state context.
ESP32-class microcontrollers make local inference, wireless
communication, and low-power operation feasible in compact
wearable devices.
Recent work has improved fall recognition using threshold
logic, machine learning, deep learning, TinyML, public
datasets, and low-power communication [3]–[5], [8], [10],
[13]. However, high classification accuracy alone does not determine
whether the patient is physiologically stable, whether
the event is severe, whether an ambulance has been assigned,
or whether a hospital has been informed. This paper therefore
addresses the integration of wearable Edge-AI fall prediction,
physiological verification, and real-time emergency coordination
in a single low-power healthcare workflow.
B. Motivation
The motivation is to move fall monitoring from isolated
alarm generation to coordinated emergency support. Edge
inference reduces latency, bandwidth use, and privacy exposure
by avoiding continuous raw-data streaming. The ESP32,
MPU6050 accelerometer and gyroscope, and heart-rate sensor
provide an inexpensive proof-of-concept stack for sampling,
feature extraction, quantized TinyML inference, physiological
verification, and duty-cycled operation.
C. Motivation for the Proposed System
The proposed system treats detection as the first step of
an emergency workflow. Post-fall physiological verification
interprets inertial evidence using heart-rate deviation, recovery
behavior, inactivity, and user confirmation. ESS-based triage
separates mild, moderate, and critical events so that caregiver
follow-up, ambulance coordination, live tracking, and hospital
pre-notification can be activated only when warranted.
D. Contributions
This paper makes the following contributions:
• A hybrid Edge-AI fall-prediction pipeline combining
TinyML inference with threshold-based physical verification.
• A physiological verification layer that uses personalized
heart-rate response to support false-alarm reduction.
• An ESS model that converts fall probability, impact,
physiology, inactivity, and user response into severity
levels.
• An ambulance coordination and live-tracking workflow
that connects caregiver, dispatcher, ambulance crew, and
cloud dashboard.
• A hospital pre-notification process with reproducible
evaluation metrics for prototype validation.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Wearable Fall Detection Systems
Wearable fall detection has progressed from fixed thresholds
to machine-learning and TinyML-enabled systems. Threshold
methods are interpretable and efficient but sensitive to
placement, activity intensity, and fall-like activities. Machinelearning
and deep-learning approaches improve temporal pattern
recognition on inertial datasets, while cloud-edge comparisons
and TinyML studies show that fall inference can
be moved closer to the user to reduce latency and transmission
demand [3], [5], [8], [10]. Recent surveys emphasize
that accuracy must be balanced with sampling rate, sensing
modality, embedded memory, communication cost, and power
consumption [6], [11]–[15].
B. Physiological Monitoring for Fall Verification
Inertial evidence alone does not determine clinical urgency.
Heart-rate sensing can indicate abnormal post-event response,
non-recovery, stress, possible syncope-related events, or poor
sensor contact. Prior accelerometer–heart-rate fusion work
shows that physiological features support user-adaptive fall
detection, and user-specific performance differences motivate
personalized baselines [4], [7]. In this paper, physiology is
used as a post-fall verification signal that increases severity
for abnormal recovery or inactivity while allowing low-risk
cancelled events to be downgraded.
C. Emergency Response and Ambulance Coordination
Caregiver notification is useful but incomplete when the
caregiver is unavailable, the patient is unresponsive, or the
event is severe. EMS literature highlights telemedicine, prehospital
decision support, and structured information exchange
before hospital arrival [16], [17]. Mobile emergency applications
and smart-homecare systems similarly show the value
of dashboards, notifications, and monitoring [9], [18]. The
remaining gap is an integrated pipeline that starts with verified
wearable fall prediction and continues through severity assessment,
ambulance coordination, live tracking, and hospital prenotification.
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
A. Overall Architecture
The overall architecture is shown in Fig. 1. The platform
is organized as a layered workflow: wearable sensing, local
fall prediction and verification, emergency escalation, ambulance
tracking, hospital pre-notification, and dashboard-based
monitoring.
B. Wearable Sensing Layer
The wearable layer contains the ESP32, MPU6050 accelerometer
and gyroscope, heart-rate sensor, battery subsystem,
and optional location interface. Inertial channels capture
impact, rotation, posture transition, and inactivity, while BPM
measurements provide pre- and post-event physiological context.
Location is obtained through a paired smartphone, Wi-Fi
positioning, beacons, or optional low-power GNSS.
C. Hybrid Edge-AI Fall Prediction Engine
The hybrid engine runs near the sensor to reduce latency,
bandwidth use, and privacy exposure. TinyML estimates fall
probability from inertial windows, while deterministic thresholds
check acceleration peaks, angular velocity, posture transition,
and inactivity. This combines learned motion patterns
with interpretable safety checks.
B. Fall Prediction Algorithm
The fall prediction module estimates the probability of a
fall event using a quantized model fθ(·):
pf (t) = fθ(Xt), 0 ≤ pf (t) ≤ 1. (3)
A candidate fall is declared when
pf (t) ≥ τf , (4)
where τf balances sensitivity and precision. Model output
is only the first decision stage because atypical activities
can resemble falls. The TinyML model is selected under
memory, latency, and energy constraints; a one-dimensional
CNN captures short inertial patterns, temporal convolutions
can add context, and 8-bit quantization is preferred for ESP32
deployment.
C. Physiological Verification
After a candidate fall, the physiological verifier compares
post-event heart rate with the user’s rolling baseline. Let μH
and σH be the personalized baseline mean and standard deviation
computed during stable non-fall periods. The normalized
post-event deviation is
ZH =
Hpost − μH
σH + ϵ
, (5)
where Hpost is a post-event heart-rate statistic and ϵ avoids
division by zero. The physiological concern flag is set when
VH =
(
1, |ZH| ≥ τH or recovery is abnormal,
0, otherwise.
(6)
Heart-rate verification is not used to reject every fall. Instead, it
contributes to severity estimation: strong inertial evidence with
inactivity or abnormal physiology is escalated, while weak
evidence with normal recovery and immediate cancellation is
downgraded.
D. Emergency Severity Assessment
The Emergency Severity Score computation process is illustrated
in Fig. 3.
The ESS combines fall probability, acceleration peak, gyroscope
peak, heart-rate deviation, inactivity, and user response
status into a severity value for triage, ambulance dispatch, and
hospital pre-notification.
The severity score combines model confidence, physical
impact, physiological deviation, inactivity, and user response:
S = w1pf +w2Aˆpeak +w3 ˆGpeak +w4VH +w5I +w6C, (7)
where ˆ Apeak and ˆGpeak are normalized peak acceleration and
angular velocity, I indicates prolonged inactivity, C indicates
failed cancellation or failed user confirmation, and wi are
design weights. Severity levels are assigned as
L =


Low, S < λ1,
Moderate, λ1 ≤ S < λ2,
Critical, S ≥ λ2.
(8)
Low severity is logged and sent to caregivers; moderate
severity prepares dispatch escalation; critical severity triggers
ambulance coordination subject to local legal and operational
constraints.
E. Ambulance Coordination Process
For moderate or critical events, the cloud server validates
the packet, confirms location, checks caregiver response, and
ing
center, or authorized integration. The ambulance module
records dispatch state, ambulance identifier, ETA, and route
progress, preserving human-in-the-loop control where direct
emergency-number automation is not permitted.
F. Hospital Pre-Notification Workflow
Hospital pre-notification is triggered after ambulance assignment
or caregiver-confirmed transport. The packet includes
patient profile, event time, location, severity, heart-rate trend,
movement status, ETA, and optional medical context. Algorithms
1–3 summarize the hybrid sensing, severity assessment,
and coordination logic.
V. EMERGENCY RESPONSE FRAMEWORK
The emergency response workflow in Fig. 2 connects continuous
monitoring to false-alarm logging or verified emergency
routing.
The wearable acquires inertial and heart-rate data, estimates
fall probability using TinyML, verifies impact and physiology,
computes ESS, and activates caregiver notification, ambulance
coordination, tracking, hospital pre-notification, and dashboard
logging according to severity.
Algorithm 1 Hybrid Fall Detection and Verification
Require: Accelerometer data A, gyroscope data G, heart rate
H
Ensure: Emergency severity level
1: Acquire sensor data.
2: Extract motion features.
3: Compute fall probability Pf using TinyML.
4: if Pf < Threshold then
5: Continue monitoring.
6: else
7: Perform impact verification.
8: Analyze heart-rate deviation.
9: Compute Emergency Severity Score.
10: Classify severity.
11: Trigger notification workflow.
12: end if
13: Store event in cloud dashboard.
Algorithm 2 Emergency Severity Assessment
Require: Pf , Ap, Gp, HR, I, U
Ensure: Severity level
1: Compute ESS.
2: ESS = w1Pf + w2Ap + w3Gp + w4HR + w5I + w6U.
3: if ESS < 30 then
4: Severity level ← Mild.
5: else if ESS < 70 then
6: Severity level ← Moderate.
7: else
8: Severity level ← Critical.
9: end if
10: Return severity level.
A.Fall Event Detection
The wearable samples sensors according to monitoring state
and converts streams into motion and physiological descriptors
for hybrid local inference. If no potential fall is identified,
monitoring resumes.
B. Patient Status Verification
For candidate falls, post-fall verification checks heart-rate
deviation, recovery, inactivity, and cancellation status. Benign
events are logged; unresolved events advance to severity
assessment.
C. Alert Generation
ESS classifies the event as mild, moderate, or critical. Alerts
include event time, severity, location, wearable status, and a
concise physiological summary.
D. Ambulance Dispatch
Moderate or critical events create a dispatch request containing
patient identity, location, severity, event summary,
and contact information. Confirmation and assignment are
timestamped for response-time measurement.
Algorithm 3 Ambulance Coordination and Hospital Notification
Require: Severity level, patient location
Ensure: Coordinated emergency response
1: Receive verified fall event.
2: Notify caregiver.
3: if severity level = Mild then
4: Log event.
5: else
6: Request ambulance.
7: Start live tracking.
8: Notify hospital.
9: Update dashboard.
10: end if
11: Close event.
E. Live Tracking
After assignment, authorized users receive ambulance status
updates such as en route, arrived at patient, transporting, and
arrived at hospital. Role-based access protects patient and
responder privacy.
F. Hospital Notification
Hospital pre-notification sends fall time, severity, heart-rate
trend, patient profile, location, ambulance identifier, and ETA
before arrival; the dashboard preserves the audit trail.
VI. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
A. Sensor Configuration
The baseline inertial sampling rate is 25–50 Hz, with short
100 Hz windows during candidate events to capture impact
details while limiting energy cost [13]. Heart rate is sampled
continuously or periodically according to sensor and power
budget. Waist, wrist, and chest placements should be evaluated
separately because they trade center-of-mass fidelity, user
acceptance, arm-motion artifacts, and physiological contact
quality.
B. Dataset Description
Validation will first use public inertial datasets including
SisFall [19], MobiAct [20], and KFall [8] for reproducible
comparison. Because these datasets often use simulated falls
and lack physiological response, a later ethics-approved pilot
should collect older-adult activities of daily living, safe
assisted fall-like transitions where permissible, and heartrate
data across resting, movement, posture-change, and postexertion
conditions.
C. Evaluation Procedure
Evaluation proceeds in six phases: subject-wise dataset
training, 8-bit ESP32 deployment, hybrid verification against
model-only and threshold-only baselines, simulated workflow
testing across caregiver/dispatch/ambulance/hospital states,
power profiling across sleep/sampling/inference/transmission
modes, and a usability pilot measuring comfort, alert clarity,
and dashboard task completion.
D. Hardware Specifications
The prototype hardware is summarized in Table I. The
configuration emphasizes affordability, portability, on-device
inference, and reproducible evaluation.
VII. PERFORMANCE METRICS
Let true positives (TP) be correctly detected falls, true
negatives (TN) be correctly rejected non-fall activities, false
TABLE I
PROPOSED HARDWARE SPECIFICATIONS
Component Specification and role
ESP32 Low-power microcontroller for sampling, preprocessing,
TinyML inference, Bluetooth or Wi-Fi
communication, and sleep scheduling
MPU6050 accelerometer Triaxial acceleration for impact, free-fall, posture
transition, and inactivity analysis
MPU6050 gyroscope Triaxial angular velocity for rotation and balanceloss
characterization
Heart-rate sensor BPM monitoring for pre-event baseline, post-fall
deviation, and recovery analysis
Battery Rechargeable lithium cell, target 500–1000 mAh
depending on enclosure and monitoring interval
Gateway Smartphone or Wi-Fi router for cloud synchronization
and location services
Dashboard Web or mobile interface for caregiver, dispatcher,
and hospital roles
positives (FP) be non-falls incorrectly classified as falls, and
false negatives (FN) be missed falls. Accuracy is
Accuracy =
TP + TN
TP + TN + FP + FN
. (9)
Precision is
Precision =
TP
TP + FP
. (10)
Recall, also called sensitivity, is
Recall =
TP
TP + FN
. (11)
The F1-score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall:
F1 = 2 ×
Precision × Recall
Precision + Recall
. (12)
Specificity measures the ability to reject non-fall activities:
Specificity =
TN
TN + FP
. (13)
Response time is measured from fall occurrence to the relevant
response milestone. For caregiver alert response,
Talert = tcaregiver − tfall. (14)
For dispatch response,
Tdispatch = tambulance assigned − tfall. (15)
Because underscores are not used in implementation logs,
the deployed system should store each timestamp as an ISO
8601 field such as fallTime, caregiverAlertTime,
and ambulanceAssignedTime.
Average power consumption is estimated from state durations
and currents:
Pavg =
PK
i=1 V IiTi PK
i=1 Ti
, (16)
where V is supply voltage, Ii is current in state i, and Ti is
time spent in that state. Average current is
Iavg =
PK
i=1 IiTi PK
i=1 Ti
. (17)
Fig. 4. Accuracy comparison between threshold-based, CNN-based, TinyMLbased,
and proposed hybrid Edge-AI approaches.
Battery life in hours is estimated as
Blife =
Cbη
Iavg
, (18)
where Cb is battery capacity in mAh and η is usable battery
efficiency. These equations should be reported with state
definitions so that energy results are reproducible.
VIII. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
This section reports design-time targets and expected trends
to guide prototype validation. Measured values should replace
these estimates after hardware implementation and participantbased
testing.
A. Accuracy Analysis
The accuracy comparison between baseline and proposed
approaches is shown in Fig. 4.
Fig. 4 compares baseline and proposed approaches. The
target is at least 95% accuracy, recall, and specificity under
subject-wise testing, because random window-level splits can
overestimate performance. The hybrid design is expected to
preserve most full-precision accuracy after quantization while
improving the recall–specificity balance through TinyML pattern
recognition, physical thresholds, and physiological context.
B. False Alarm Reduction Analysis
The false alarm comparison is shown in Fig. 5.
Fig. 5 shows the expected reduction in false alarms from
requiring consistency among model probability, inertial peaks,
posture or inactivity, heart-rate response, and cancellation
status. Physiology is not treated as proof of injury; it is a
contextual signal that downgrades active, cancelled, physiologically
normal events and escalates unresponsive or abnormalrecovery
cases.
C. Emergency Response Time Analysis
The end-to-end response timeline of the proposed framework
is summarized in Fig. 6.
Fig. 6 emphasizes reduced information delay rather than
guaranteed ambulance travel-time reduction. The targets are
caregiver alert latency below 10 s after verification and cloudto-
dispatch preparation below 30 s for critical supervised
workflows. Hospital pre-notification moves patient, severity,
heart-rate, and ETA information into the transport interval.
D. Power Consumption Analysis
The estimated battery-life comparison for different operating
modes is shown in Fig. 7.
Fig. 7 reflects the benefit of adaptive sampling, local
inference, event-based transmission, and sleep scheduling.
Continuous Wi-Fi or GNSS would reduce lifetime, so the
design favors low-rate monitoring, short event windows, and
smartphone-assisted location when possible.
Fig. 7. Estimated battery life under different operating modes.
Fig. 8. Confusion matrix of the proposed hybrid fall prediction framework.
Fig. 8 reports the confusion matrix used to summarize the
expected classification behavior of the proposed hybrid fall
prediction framework.
Prototype validation should target ≥95% accuracy, recall,
and specificity, <100 ms on-device inference per window, <10
s caregiver alert latency, <30 s critical dispatch preparation
in supervised workflows, lower false escalation than modelonly
and threshold-only baselines, 24–72 h battery life under
duty cycling, and complete delivery of event time, severity,
heart-rate trend, location, ETA, and patient profile to the
hospital dashboard. Compared with threshold-only, cloudonly,
edge-only, physiological-monitoring, and EMS telehealth
approaches, the proposed platform’s key distinction is integration:
sensing, TinyML inference, physiological verification,
ESS triage, ambulance tracking, and hospital pre-notification
are connected in one governed workflow. Remaining challenges
are representative older-adult datasets, regulated dispatch
integration with human oversight, and concise interoperable
hospital messages.
IX. FUTURE WORK
Future work will implement the complete ESP32 prototype
and evaluate adaptive switching between low-cost thresholds
and TinyML inference. The sampling policy will be optimized
using activity state, battery level, fall history, and sensor confidence
so that accuracy and battery life are jointly measured.
Longitudinal data may support predictive analytics based on
gait variability, near-fall frequency, heart-rate recovery, and
nighttime movement, but outputs should remain explainable
and avoid overmedicalization. Smart ambulance allocation can
incorporate severity, patient location, ambulance availability,
travel time, hospital capacity, and patient profile; however, dispatch
decisions are safety critical and must be evaluated with
emergency medical services partners under human oversight.
Because the platform handles health and location data, future
prototypes must include encryption, authentication, role-based
access, audit logs, consent management, fail-safe behavior,
and ethics-approved validation with older adults, caregivers,
responders, and hospital staff. Deployment studies should also
report failure modes, caregiver workload, and interoperability
with local clinical documentation systems.
X. CONCLUSION
This paper proposed a compact Edge-AI emergency healthcare
platform for elderly fall prediction and response. The
platform combines ESP32-based wearable sensing, MPU6050
inertial data, heart-rate monitoring, TinyML fall prediction,
threshold verification, physiological verification, ESS-based
triage, caregiver alerts, patient-location sharing, ambulance coordination,
live ambulance tracking, hospital pre-notification,
and cloud dashboard management. Its key innovation is the
integration of fall classification with post-fall patient-state verification
and operational emergency coordination. Rather than
ending with a caregiver notification, the workflow connects
patient, caregiver, dispatcher, ambulance crew, and hospital
in an auditable event-driven process. The paper preserved
mathematical formulations for inertial features, fall probability,
physiological deviation, severity scoring, classification
metrics, response time, power consumption, and battery-life
estimation, and formalized the operational logic through three
algorithms. Expected results indicate that the hybrid approach
can maintain high accuracy while reducing false alarms, shortening
information delay, and supporting low-power operation.
By preserving local processing and sharing structured event
summaries, the design also supports privacy-aware aging-inplace
deployment. The framework provides a reproducible
basis for prototype implementation, public-dataset evaluation,
hardware profiling, and ethically governed clinical pilot studies.
REFERENCES
[1] World Health Organization, “Falls,” Fact sheet, Apr. 2021. [Online].
Available: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/falls
[2] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “Older adult falls data,”
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://www.cdc.gov/falls/data-research/index.html
[3] D. Mrozek, A. Koczur, and B. Małysiak-Mrozek, “Fall detection in older
adults with mobile IoT devices and machine learning in the cloud and
on the edge,” Information Sciences, vol. 537, pp. 132–147, 2020.
[4] Y.-H. Nho, J. G. Lim, and D.-S. Kwon, “Cluster-analysis-based useradaptive
fall detection using fusion of heart rate sensor and accelerometer
in a wearable device,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 40389–40401, 2020.
[5] T. Xu, H. Se, and J. Liu, “A fusion fall detection algorithm combining
threshold-based method and convolutional neural network,” Microprocessors
and Microsystems, vol. 82, Art. no. 103828, Apr. 2021.
[6] E. Casilari, R. Lora-Rivera, and F. Garc´ıa-Lagos, “A study on the
application of convolutional neural networks to fall detection evaluated
with multiple public datasets,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 5, Art. no. 1466,
2020.
[7] J.-A. Santoyo-Ram´on, E. Casilari, and J.-M. Cano-Garc´ıa, “Impact
of user characteristics on the performance of wearable fall detection
systems,” Scientific Reports, vol. 11, Art. no. 23055, 2021.
[8] X. Yu, J. Jang, and S. Xiong, “A large-scale open motion dataset (KFall)
and benchmark algorithms for detecting pre-impact fall of the elderly
using wearable inertial sensors,” Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience, vol.
13, Art. no. 692865, 2021.
[9] T. Vaiyapuri, H. Alaskar, S. A. Haq, M. A. Alotaibi, O. I. Khalaf, and
D. Al-Fahad, “Deep learning enabled elderly fall detection for smart
homecare,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 113879–113888, 2021.
[10] X. Yu, S. Park, D. Kim, E. Kim, J. Kim, W. Kim, Y. An, and S. Xiong,
“A practical wearable fall detection system based on tiny convolutional
neural networks,” Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, vol. 86,
Art. no. 105325, Sep. 2023.
[11] C. V. F. Pereira, E. M. de Oliveira, and A. D. de Souza, “Machine
learning applied to edge computing and wearable devices for healthcare:
Systematic mapping of the literature,” Sensors, vol. 24, no. 19, Art. no.
6322, 2024.
[12] M. Villa and E. Casilari, “Wearable fall detectors based on low power
transmission systems: A systematic review,” Technologies, vol. 12, no.
9, Art. no. 166, 2024.
[13] A. Villa and E. Casilari, “The impact of the accelerometer sampling rate
on the performance of machine and deep learning models in wearable
fall-detection systems,” Sensors, vol. 26, no. 1, Art. no. 162, 2026.
[14] O. Flor-Unda, R. Arcos-Reina, C. Estrella-Caicedo, C. Toapanta, F.
Villao, H. Palacios-Cabrera, et al., “A comparative overview of technological
advances in fall detection systems for elderly people,” Sensors,
vol. 25, no. 24, Art. no. 7423, 2025.
[15] M. Ishaq, D. Guastella, G. Sutera, and G. Muscato, “A systematic review
of fall detection and prediction technologies for older adults: An analysis
of sensor modalities and computational models,” Applied Sciences, vol.
16, no. 4, Art. no. 1929, 2026.
[16] Y. Kim, C. Groombridge, L. Romero, S. Clare, and M. C. Fitzgerald,
“Decision support capabilities of telemedicine in emergency prehospital
care: Systematic review,” Journal of Medical Internet Research, vol. 22,
no. 12, Art. no. e18959, 2020.
[17] C. Janerka, G. D. Leslie, M. Mellan, and G. Arendts, “Review article:
Prehospital telehealth for emergency care: A scoping review,” Emergency
Medicine Australasia, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 540–552, 2023.
[18] I. Plaza, M. Marcos, R. D. Castro, and C. F. Medrano, “Mobile applications
for emergency response and patient monitoring: A systematic
review,” International Journal of Medical Informatics, vol. 150, Art. no.
104450, 2021.
[19] A. Sucerquia, J. D. L´opez, and J. F. Vargas-Bonilla, “SisFall: A fall and
movement dataset,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 1, Art. no. 198, 2017.
[20] G. Vavoulas, M. Pediaditis, E. G. Spanakis, and M. Tsiknakis, “The
MobiAct dataset: Recognition of activities of daily living using smartphones,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Information and Communication Technologies
for Ageing Well and e-Health, 2016, pp. 143–151.
